# DL_Based_Clustering_Covid19
For initial clustering of the covid19 data and to visualise the spread of the covid19 disease iniatially the DBSCAN algorithm is used to plot the clusters with fields  - ['latitude','longitude','date'].
This is actually a time series data with higher dimensions. The issue with the DBSCAN is as shown in the notebook "DBSCAN.ipynb" - The data points are not clustered together properly where the density varies. DBSCAN takes two parameters into consideration - epsilon (this is the minimum distance between the points so that the points can be considered as the core points, boundary points or noise) and min_points (The number of the neighbours for the point to be considered as the core points, border and noise). With these two parameters the DBSCAN algorithm is capable of clustering the datapoints according to the density but it shows inaccurate results with varying density. 
In order to address the above issue a variation of DBSCAN - HDBSCAN is further used to cluster the data. The main advantage of this is that we can cluster the points belonging to the different densities as well. The parameters - epsilon can be optional. The results can be viewed in the python notebooks - "clustering for time series data." The issue with the hdbscan is that it is was clustering the data points according to the varying densities and thus smaller clusters too were formed. As a result of this the no of clusters were increased. Again a variation of this - hdbscan with dbscan is used that makes the use of epsilon. 
